# Algorithms
## Part one: Fundamentals
> The objective of this book is to study a broad variety of important and useful algorithms--methods for solving problems that are suited for computer implementation. Algorithms go hand in hand with data structures--schemes for organizing data that leave them amendable to efficient processing by an algorithm. This chapter introduces our basic tools that we need to study algorithms and data structures.
>> First, we introduce our basic programming model. All of our programs are implemented using a small subset of the java programming model plus a few of our own libraries for input/output and for statistical calculations. **SECTION 1.1 is a summary of language constructs, features, and libraries that we use in this book.**  
Next, we emphasize data abstraction, where we define abstract data types (ADTs) in the services of modular pogramming. **In SECTION 1.2 we introduce the process of implementing an ADT in Java, by specifying an applications programming interfaces (API) and then using the Java class mechanism to develop an implementation for use in client code.**  
As important and useful examples, we next consider three fundamentals ADTs: the bag, the queue, and the stack. **SECTION 1.3 describes APIs and implementations of bags, queues, and stack using arrays, resizing arrays, and linked lists that serve as models and starting points for algorithm implementations throughout the book.**  
Performance is a central consideration in the study of algorithms. **SECTION 1.4 describes our approach to analyzing algorithms performance. The basis of our approach is the scientific method: we develop hypotheses about performance, create mathmatical models, and run experiments to test them, repeating the process as necessary.**  

> we conclude with a case study where we consider solutions to a connectivity problem that uses algorithms and data structures that implement the classic *Union-find* ADT.

**Defination of Algorithms:**  
>When we write a computer program, we are generally implementing a method that has been devised previously to solve some problem. This method is often independent of the paticular programming language being used--it is likely to be equally appropriate for many computers and many programming languages. It is the method, rather than the computer program itself, that specifies the step that we can take to solve the problem. The term *algorithm* is used in computer science to describe a **finite, deterministic, and effetive** problem-solving method suitable for implementation as a computer program. Algorithms are the stuff of computer science: they are central objects of study in the field.  
We can define an algorithm by describing a procedure for solving a problem in a natural language, or by writing a computer program that implements the procedure.
